Release notes for 1.27.0 (#5419)
line/armeria: site/src/pages/release-notes/1.27.0.mdx

---
date: 2024-01-28
---

## 🌟 New features

> - **xDS-based EndpointGroup**: You can utilize xDS protocols to create <type://XdsEndpointGroup> for service

Reviewer: How about `xDS support`?
How about also adding a link to it? https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-docs/xds_protocol

Author: > How about xDS support?

- We don't fully support xDS protocol so the scope is limited to `EndpointGroup`.

> How about also adding a link to it? 

I'm late. I was about to add it.

      // Customize the underlying WebSocket service.
    })
    .build();
  ```
- **Service-specific EventLoopGroup**: You can now assign a different `EventLoopGroup` to each service for
  finer grained resource control. #4099 #5233
  ```java
  Server
    .builder()
    .serviceWorkerGroup(globalServiceWorkerGroup)
    .route()
       .path("/user")
       // Use userServiceWorkerGroup for the user service.
       .serviceWorkerGroup(userServiceWorkerGroup)
       .build(userService)
    .route()
       .path("/api")
       // Use apiServiceWorkerGroup for the API service.
       .serviceWorkerGroup(apiServiceWorkerGroup)
       .build(apiService)
    .build();
  ```
- **Custom Exception Handling for gRPC clients**: You can customize how your gRPC clients respond to exceptions
  by implementing <type://GrpcExceptionHandlerFunction>. #5347 #5351
  ```java
  GrpcClients
    .builder("https://my-grpc-server.com") 
    .exceptionHandler((ctx, cause, metadata) -> {
      // Handle the exception.
      return Status.INTERNAL.withDescription("Something went wrong");
    })
  ```
- **Thrift Service Decorators**: You can now utilize <type://@Decorator> annotations to conveniently apply

>   custom logic to Thrift services. #4230 #5356

Reviewer: custom decorators?

  ```java
  @Decorator(ClassDecorator.class)
  class MyHelloService implements HelloService.AsyncIface {
    @Decorator(MethodDecorator.class)
    @Override
    public void hello(String name, AsyncMethodCallback<String> handler) throws TException {
      ...
    }
  }
  ```
- **Kubernetes Client Integration**: You can now use the popular [Fabric Kubernetes client](https://github.com/fabric8io/kubernetes-client)
  seamlessly on top of Armeria when using the `armeria-kubernetes` module. #5167
- **WebSocket Service Fallback**: Now, it is possible to set up a fallback service for 

> - <type://WebSocketService> to handle non-WebSocket requests seamlessly with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <type://WebSocketService> to handle non-WebSocket requests seamlessly with
```

  <type://WebSocketServiceBuilder#fallbackService(HttpService)> #5368
  ```java
  WebSocketService webSocketService = 
    WebSocketService.builder()
      // The fallback service is used when the request 
      // is not a WebSocket request.
      .fallbackService(httpService)
      .build();
  Server
    .builder()
    .service("/ws-or-http", webSocketService)
    .build();
  ```

> - **WebSocket Frame Aggregation**: You can now enable to aggregate WebSocket continuation frames for simplified 
> - message processing using <type://WebSocketServiceBuilder#aggregateContinuation(boolean)>. #5357

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **WebSocket Frame Aggregation**: You can now enable aggregating WebSocket continuation frames for simplified 
  message processing using <type://WebSocketServiceBuilder#aggregateContinuation(boolean)>. #5357
```

  ```java
  WebSocketService
    .builder()
    // Aggregate continuation frames into a single frame.
    .aggregateContinuation(true)
    .build(); 
  ```
- **Active Connection Monitoring**: You can track the number of active connections with 
  `armeria.client.connections#value{state="active"}` for your clients when using 
  <type://ConnectionPoolListener#metricCollecting(MeterRegistry)> #4277 #5288
  ```java
  ClientFactory clientFactory =
    ClientFactory
      .builder()
      .connectionPoolListener(ConnectionPoolListener.metricCollecting(meterRegistry))
      .build();
  WebClient
    .builder("https://my-backend.com")
    .factory(clientFactory)
    .build();
  ```
- **Graceful Executor Shutdown**: You can now gracefully terminate a custom `ExecutorService` in sync with the

> - <type://Server>'s shutdown procedure using <type://ServerListenerBuilder#shutdownWhenStopped(ExecutorService,Duration)>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <type://Server>'s shutdown procedure using <type://ServerListenerBuilder#shutdownWhenStopped(ExecutorService,Duration)>
```

Reviewer: Do you mean whenStopping?

Author: `shutdownWhenStopping` and `shutdownWhenStopped` is the actual API names.
Do you think we need to rename them before releasing 1.27.0?
https://github.com/line/armeria/blob/1862b7156c3606fcab7f2c09fa46f49588aae028/core/src/main/java/com/linecorp/armeria/server/ServerListenerBuilder.java#L327-L350

Reviewer: What I meant was that you specified the `shutdownWhenStopped` twice in the original note. 😆 
The sentence is rewritten so it's okay now. 😉

  and <type://ServerListenerBuilder#shutdownWhenStopped(ExecutorService,Duration)> #5031 #5087
  ```java
  ServerListener
    .builder()
    // Shutdown the executor service when the server is stopping.
    .shutdownWhenStopping(preStopExecutorService)
    // Shutdown the executor service when the server is stopped.
    .shutdownWhenStopped(postStopExecutorService)
    .build()
  ```
- **Session Protocol in RoutingContext**: You can now acquire <type://SessionProtocol> directly from

>   <type://RoutingContext#sessionProtocol()> for enhanced routing and <type://EchangeType> decisions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <type://RoutingContext#sessionProtocol()> for enhanced routing and <type://ExchangeType> decisions.
```

- You can now easily mask request and response headers with ... #5175 #5188
  - TODO(ikhoon): TBU
- **Eureka Health Check Customization**: You can override the default health check URL when registering with 
  Eureka. #5369
  ```java
  EurekaUpdatingListener
    .builder()
    // Override the default health check path provided by HealthCheckService.
    .healthCheckUrlPath("/healthcheck")
    .build();
  ```

## 📈 Improvements

> - Annotated services now support <type://HttpResult> wrapped in RxJava objects #5380 #5386

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Annotated services now support <type://HttpResult> wrapped in RxJava objects. #5380 #5386
```

- You can now create <type://HttpFile> with 
  [Spring Boot nested JAR URL](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/executable-jar.html#appendix.executable-jar.jarfile-class.compatibility). #5390 #5391
- <type://WebsocketService> is restructured as an interface, allowing for custom implementations. #5368
- Introduce <type://PreTlsHandshakeException> to better report exceptions occurring before a TLS handshake
  initiates. #5344
- Error messages for gRPC client stub generation have been clarified. #5387

## 🛠️ Bug fixes

- <type://ClientRequestContext#whenResponseCancelling()> and <type://ClientRequestContext#whenResponseCancelled()>

>   is now correctly completed even if the  `CancellationScheduler` has not been initialized #5212

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  are now correctly completed even if the <type://CancellationScheduler> has not been initialized. #5212
```

Author: `CancellationScheduler` is an internal API so the sentence has been rewritten with different words.

- Fixed a leak within a WebSocket client when an invalid response is received. #5412
- `json_name` attribute in protobuf files is now correctly used for matching query parameters during
  gRPC HTTP/JSON transcoding. #5193 #5366
- Implicit request objects are now correctly converted. #5389 #5393

> - Fixed an issue with handling an empty reason phase in WebSocket Close frames. #5388

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- WebSocket Close frames with empty reason phrases are not correctly handled. #5388
```

Author: Maybe `not` -> `now`?

> - <type://Flags> logging is now consistent, irrespective of <type://RequestContextExportingAppender> 

Reviewer: Is this generated by the ChatGPT? 😆
I'm not sure what this means. Could you use the original sentence in the commit description?

Author: Right... 😆 Many of them were abandoned while polishing the notes.

  configurations in `logback.xml`. #5327 #5361
- You no longer see <type://EndpointSelectionTimeoutException> when <type://HealthCheckedEndpointGroup> is 

>   initialized with duplicate `Endpoint`s. #5343

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  initialized with duplicate <typeplural://Endpoint>. #5343
```

- <type://HttpHeaders#containsBoolean(CharSequence,boolean)> now checks across all header entries with the same
  name. #5319
- <type://GrpcService> provides more consistent `ServerCall.Listener` behavior under error conditions #5273

## 📃 Documentation

- Updated [Production Checklist](/docs/advanced-production-checklist) with guidance on 
  using <type://ClientFactoryBuilder#maxNumEventLoopsPerEndpoint(int)>. This addition will help you mitigate 

> - potential client-side bottlenecks. #5297

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  potential client-side bottlenecks. #5297
```

## 🛠️ Bug fixes

- The completions of <type://ClientRequestContext#whenResponseCancelling()> and <type://ClientRequestContext#whenResponseCancelled()>
  are now guaranteed even if <type://RequestContext#cancel()> is invoked before the initialization of 
  the timeout scheduler. #5212
- Fixed a leak within <type://WebSocketClient> when an invalid response is received. #5412
- [`json_name` pseudo-option](https://protobuf.com/docs/language-spec#default-json-names) in protobuf files is 
  now correctly respected for matching query parameters during gRPC HTTP/JSON transcoding. #5193 #5366
- Implicit request objects are now correctly converted. #5389 #5393
- <type://CloseWebSocketFrame> with empty reason phrases are now correctly handled. #5388
- <type://Flags> now correctly logs all messages when <type://RequestContextExportingAppender> is configured in 
  `logback.xml`. #5327 #5361
- You no longer see <type://EndpointSelectionTimeoutException> when <type://HealthCheckedEndpointGroup> is 
  initialized with duplicate <typeplural://Endpoint>. #5343
- <type://HttpHeaders#containsBoolean(CharSequence,boolean)> now checks all header entries with the same
  name. #5319

> - <type://GrpcService> provides more consistent `ServerCall.Listener` behavior under error conditions #5273

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <type://GrpcService> provides more consistent `ServerCall.Listener` behavior under error conditions. #5273
```
